---
title: 2. 6v6 Rules
---
---

## 2.1. Classlimits

Class counts are limited as follows:

- 2 Scouts
- 2 Soldiers
- 1 Pyro
- 1 Demoman
- 1 Heavy
- 1 Engineer
- 1 Medic
- 1 Sniper
- 2 Spies

Players switching to Spectator and/or from Spectator to change classes more quickly is strictly forbidden.

---

## 2.2. Maps

In the 6v6 format, 5CP maps (such as Process) and KOTH maps (such as Product) are played.

### 5CP
  
The time limit is set to 30 minutes (mp_timelimit 30) and the win limit to 5 rounds (mp_winlimit 5). The first team to reach five points, or the team with the highest amount of points once the map timer runs out, wins the map. If the map score is tied once the time limit is reached, a decider round (“Golden Cap”) will have to be played.

#### Golden Cap in 5CP

“Golden Cap” rounds have a time limit of 15 minutes (mp_timelimit 15) and a win limit of 1 round (mp_winlimit 1). If neither team manages to win the round within the time limit, they must play a second “Golden Cap” round. Whoever captures the middle point first is then declared the winner.

The winner of a map that ended with a “Golden Cap” round is awarded 2 league points, while the loser is awarded 1 league point.

### KOTH (King Of The Hill)

There is no time limit. A win limit of 3 rounds (mp_winlimit 3) is set. The first team to win three rounds in the map wins.

## 2.3. Rosters must contain a minimum of six players

A team’s roster must consist of a minimum of six players to be eligible to sign up for 6v6 competitions.

---

## 2.4. Minimum of five players needed to play a match

Teams must field at least five players to play a scheduled 6v6 match. A team can ask their opponent to allow a merc to play for their team, following the rules of the [merc clause](/docs/6v6-1#13-mercenary-clause). If you are not able to field six players, you can choose to play 5v6.  

A team that is not able to field five players will receive a Default Loss
