---
title: 2. 9v9 Rules
---
---

## 2.1. Classlimits

The Highlander gamemode is played 9v9 with a general class limit of one.

---

## 2.2. Maps

In the 9v9 format, 5CP maps (such as Gullywash), A&D and Payload maps (such as Steel or Upward) and KOTH maps (such as Product) are played.

### 5CP

The time limit is set to 30 minutes (mp_timelimit 30) and the win difference to 5 rounds (mp_windifference 5). The first team to reach a five point lead over the other, or the team with the highest amount of points once the map timer runs out, wins the map. If the map score is tied once the time limit is reached, a decider round (“Golden Cap”) will have to be played.

#### Golden Cap in 5CP

“Golden Cap” rounds have a time limit of 15 minutes (mp_timelimit 15) and a win limit of 1 round (mp_winlimit 1). If neither team manages to win the round within the time limit, they must play a second “Golden Cap” round. Whoever captures the middle point first is then declared the winner.

The winner of a map that ended with a “Golden Cap” round is awarded 2 league points, while the loser is awarded 1 league point.

### KOTH (King Of The Hill)

There is no time limit. A win limit of 3 rounds (mp_winlimit 3) is set. The first team to win three rounds in the map wins.

If the final score of a KOTH map has a difference of only 1 point (3-2 or 2-3) it is classified as a “Golden Cap” result, with the winner being the team who won 3 rounds.

### A&D and Payload (Stopwatch)

There is no time limit. The map is played as a best of three rounds using the “ABBA Format”, regardless of whether it appears multiple times (during the regular season) or only once (during the playoffs stage) in the official match’s page. The team that first wins two rounds wins the map.

For official matches that feature the same Stopwatch-based map multiple times, its final result should be submitted equally on all map slots. This includes ticking the “Golden Cap” checkbox if applicable.

If all three rounds were required to decide the result of a Stopwatch-based map (i.e. its final score is 2-1 or 1-2), it is classified as a “Golden Cap” result, with the winner
being the team who won 2 rounds.

- ABBA Format
Two to three rounds have to be played in A&D and Payload maps. In the first two rounds, an “ABBA Format” will be used: teams take turns attacking and defending each round; starting the first round while attacking requires the same team to start while defending in the second round, and vice-versa.

In cases where both teams each win a full Stopwatch round, a “Golden Cap” decider round must be played, with one of the teams being granted the right to choose which side they start on. The team that gets to choose is determined as follows:

The team that captured the most points during any half of the first two Stopwatch rounds gets to choose.
If the highest number of points captured by the two teams was the same during the first two Stopwatch rounds, the team who captured them faster gets to choose.
Examples:

Team A attacks during the first half of round 1 and captures 3 points, and Team B only captures 1 point, causing Team A to win the first round. Team B then attacks during the first half of round 2 and captures 4 points, and Team A once again captures 3 points. Since Team B managed to capture more points during a Stopwatch round half than Team A, they get to choose sides for the third
round.

Team A attacks during the first half of round 1 and captures all points, with a time of 4:56. Team B then attacks and captures all points faster than Team A did, in 4:31, winning the first round. Team B then attacks during the first half of round 2, and sets a time of 5:28 while capturing all points, but is beaten by Team A’s faster capture of 5:12. Both teams won one round, and the highest number of captured points by the two is the same (i.e. all points), but since Team B’s lowest attack time of 4:31 was faster than Team A’s lowest time of 4:56, they get to choose sides for the third
round.

---

## 2.3. Rosters must contain a minimum of nine players

A team’s roster must consist of a minimum of nine players to be eligible to sign up to Highlander competitions.

---

## 2.4. Minimum of eight players needed to play a match

Teams need at least eight players to play a scheduled Highlander match. A team can ask their opponent to allow a merc to play for their team, following the rules of the [merc clause](/docs/6v6-1#13-mercenary-clause). If you are not able to field nine players, you can choose to play 8v9.

A team that is not able to field eight players will receive a Default Loss.
